you cannot build a business through one
channel anymore I don't care if it's
Instagram Tick Tock SEO Google one
channel does not build big businesses
anymore all good marketing channels
eventually get saturated competitive
expensive
so I've known Neil for at least a decade
right probably it's been a long time a
long time I'm coming to your Temecula
event yes is it Temecula yeah yeah so
Neil if you could give a bit of the like
the one or two minute version of the
background of the Neil Patel world and
then we'll Dive Right into questions
sure so my background is in marketing
I've been doing this for 22 years I feel
old
um I'm not that old I'm 38 now but I do
feel old it could just be kids that make
you feel old
and
I've done everything from agencies most
of my career I spent in software doing
analytics companies
um that just help Enterprises with their
brand five years ago I created an ad
agency called NP digital
and I think we're in 16 countries now
we're going to be in 20 by the end of
the year
um it's been a really fun ride it's been
an expensive ride but it's been fun
so from a human Behavior's perspective
what do you think that brands are doing
right what do you think some brands are
doing wrong when it comes to social
media and some paid ads
the first thing I think brands are doing
wrong is they focus on what's sexy
and here's what I mean by that
there's nothing wrong with Tick Tock
we're seeing roughly a 54 currently we I
looked at last month's numbers and
there's a it's a little bit of a lag and
what I mean last month's numbers I'm not
talking about uh May I'm talking about
April
so in April we saw roughly a 54 cheaper
CPA on Tick Tock than we did on Facebook
ads to give you idea
Tick Tock is sexy it's great companies
should be leveraging it
there's a lot of basic channels out
there like Google AdWords and Facebook
and email marketing and conversion
optimization
that are driving much more volume and
can create a much bigger business that a
lot of people don't work on first
because
they're just ugly and boring like people
look at Facebook these days as oh no one
uses Facebook it's tick tock and
Instagram
but you may think that but you know how
much revenue you can make just from
Facebook advertising and even though
Tick Tock has a cheaper CPA it doesn't
mean you should not be on Tech talk but
Tick Tock from what we've seen cannot
drive the volume as Google and Facebook
yet and it's quicker and easier to scale
for most d2c companies or e-commerce
companies because we do it at scale at
our Ad Agency on the old boring ugly
channels than the new sexy ones and
that's the biggest mistake we see in
which e-commerce companies want the
shiny object instead of focusing on
Basics they want to create really
amazing videos kind of like
um Dr squash has the soap funny enough I
bought the silk because of the videos uh
you know people look at them and like I
want videos like that yes they're great
but you can leverage
ugc content and see how those ad
performs before you and fifty thousand
dollars or whatever it costs to create a
video
a lot of times brand owners or
entrepreneurs like to get stuck on this
thing that everything they've done is
organic I've never spent a dollar on ads
I've never spent a dollar on ads and a
lot of times people like wear it like a
badge of honor what would you say to
someone why they should be spending
money on their ads
if you never spent money on ads no
matter what size company you have
whether it's a startup or your billion
dollar company
it's not a badge of honor Google is a
trillion plus dollar company Facebook is
large as well
hundreds of billions of dollars not 100
but hundreds multiple hundreds of
billions of dollars a year spent on
digital ads specifically Google and
Facebook alone
right uh Google and Facebook alone if
you add them up it's well over 200
billion
and when you look at that Revenue
they generate that Revenue not because
it's cool to spend money on ads they
generate that Revenue because businesses
know that if they spend money on those
channels at least the businesses that
aren't spending money majority of them
keep spending because they're making
more money what you're doing organic is
great but once if you can scale up to
double triple your size by doing paid
advertising as well my background
started in SEO getting that organic free
traffic it's an ugly marketing channel
no one really talks about it these days
it's still super effective but some of
these boring channels like paid Google
ads or paid Facebook ads they're super
effective and you can't ignore them and
if you do your competition is going to
beat you guaranteed there's just so much
inventory there
so I always have this emotional answer
when I hear people say that they never
spend money on ads if you believe that
you have a health product and your
health product helps people it's rude of
you not to spend money to get more
people to see it if you believe that
your Fitness product helps people get
muscles or lose weight it's rude of you
to not spend money to get more people to
see it and buy that product that applies
to your book to your vitamins or
whatever product service or whatever you
do if you think that it helps people and
you should be spending money on ads to
get more people to see it so you can
help more people and so oftentimes
we get stuck in our own ways thinking
that it's cool to not ever spend money
on ads
which leads into my next question
do you look at spending money on ads as
a cost or as an investment
investment if you spend a dollar and you
can make two you're good if you spend a
dollar and you lose money then you got
to keep tweaking your ads until you can
make it profitable if you don't believe
that you can make it profitable look at
your competition because someone in your
space chances are has figured out how to
make it profitable and if you're
optimizing for Revenue right then and
there you're going to end up losing the
real money the real way to make money on
e-commerce through ads is optimizing for
the lifetime value of a customer how can
you get someone to buy from you and then
keep buying from you and even when they
buy one product from you what are the
upsells and down sales that you can
provide right then and there to generate
more income
so let's walk through you've said a
couple different things tonight in the
first few minutes I want to break down
when you said CPA what does that mean
CPA means cost per acquisition how much
does it cost you to acquire a customer
so for example if you spend a dollar a
click on Google ads and you have to buy
10 clicks and when you buy 10 clicks one
of them turns into a customer that means
it costs you ten dollars to acquire a
customer so for every 10 clicks you're
spending a dollar per click so that's
ten dollars total and for every 10
clicks you get if one turns up to be a
customer that means it's costing you an
average ten dollars to acquire a
customer
when you said upsell down sell what does
that mean
how many of you guys
go to McDonald's still
very few of you have kids that means
do you have kids they see those french
fries and funny enough on Instagram I
found out that their french fries have
chemicals in them hence there's no spots
I still can't convince my daughter not
to eat them though
but when you go to McDonald's my
daughter goes to McDonald's and goes to
that counter they have these computer
things these days and I'm not good at
them even though I'm in Tech
all right go to the counter
my daughter says Happy Meal
oh do you want water with that apple
juice they probably charge me more for
that oh do you want us you want double
the fries do you want six nuggets
instead of four nuggets do you want uh
the worst is when they ask me if I want
one of their ice cream Blended milkshake
thingies I don't know what they're
called McFlurry see you guys know this
more of you guys go to McDonald's and
you want to admit
and that's not included in a Happy Meal
that's an upsell they're selling me on
stuff I don't want but they know it's
going to be hard for me to say no to my
daughter when she throws a tantrum
So when you buy a hamburger at
McDonald's and they ask you do you want
fries with that that's the example of an
upsell or they may say here's actually a
better one all right you go to
McDonald's you say you want a Big Mac do
you want to make that in a meal that's
an upsell you say no if you say yes
great they'll try to still sell you on
more if you say no they'll be like oh do
you just want fries with that a small
fry that's a downsell something cheap
but if you're eating burgers why not eat
fries as well
is there any one main platform that
people should be using or should be they
try to use all the major platforms and
use email SEO Etc
you cannot build a business through one
channel anymore I don't care if it's
Instagram Tick Tock SEO Google one
channel does not build big businesses
anymore all good marketing channels
eventually get saturated competitive
expensive but on the flip side
if you leverage Instagram Tick Tock
Facebook SEO cro you know paid Google
ads media buys influencer marketing the
list goes on and on
what we've seen is your CPA your cost to
acquire a customer which we just talked
about a little bit earlier
remember the 10 clicks a dollar per
click costs you ten dollars then
we see your CPA roughly go down between
nine and eleven percent so omnichannel
approach really does help and what
brought light to this at first was
Expedia you guys are all familiar with
Expedia it may not be as sexy as
booking.com but a lot of people still
use it Expedia onshotels.com they used
to own Trivago TripAdvisor Etc they
spend out Trip Advisor years ago
and they did an internal test with some
of their brands that were already well
known even though people knew Brands
like Expedia when they ran tv ads radio
ads online ads and the list went on and
on they found out the cost to acquire a
customer on all the channels went down
by roughly 10 percent which we still see
holding true they all work together
so someone is first launching a company
let's say there's someone in the
audience they're about to start their
product or they're about to start their
company
how did they know like how to get
started should they be doing it
themselves should they hire an agency
should they research different platforms
like when you're first getting started
what would you recommend for someone
that has the first 10 or 20 grand to get
started with
sure so if your budget is 10 to 20 grand
you could potentially hire an agency it
depends what agencies charge we tend to
focus on Enterprise businesses our ideal
customers publicly traded so in that
case like hiring an agency like ours is
is not the best approach if you're a
startup that's funded sure you can end
up hiring an agency right but if you're
starting off and you only have 10 20 000
dollars
your money is going to go much further
if you try to do things on your own
agency is great if you want to kick
start things and get results faster
because they hopefully you've hired one
that's done stuff in your space but what
I would recommend if you're starting off
you're on a shoestring budget try to do
as much on your own Shopify has amazing
templates that you can just use to get
sites up and there's a lot of programs
online that teach you how to run
Facebook ads or Instagram ads or Tick
Tock ads or you can find a really cheap
contractor you may not get the results
the ideal results you're looking for but
it's a good start and when I say you're
not going to get the ideal results
you're looking for there's a lot of
contractors and people that can help you
get a start and get to 5 10 grand a
month in Revenue even 20 30. the hard
part is actually
scaling it and getting to Millions a
month in revenue and that's where you
may need better experts but when you're
starting off something's better than
nothing and
there's it's not that hard to start
generating five ten thousand dollars
worth of Revenue a month when you're
starting off with small budgets because
you can still get clicks at really
affordable prices it's when you scale
those issues
so there's something called beta testing
where people actually like change the
color the font size the image the circle
and a square and purple and yellow can
you walk us through does that really
matter
so a b testing is showing people two
different variations I'll give you a
great example of this
if I sell you on this amazing soap all
right I don't know why I'm thinking so
but the saw the soap sponsorship at the
beginning and they have good soap
see advertising works right yeah their
ads do work
if I'm I'm not that manly though you
know they have those ads with that buff
dude with the beers I'm like yeah that
ain't me but your soap smells like
chocolate my kids like chocolate maybe
they'll come to me more instead of mom
that was my thesis on buying it didn't
work with a young one I forgot the
concept that Mom produces milk dad does
it so I lost that battle but that was
really why I bought the soap in the
first place
so when you think about soap their ad is
very emotional
right it's cool it's fun it's
entertaining it's appealing to the
emotional side of your brain
some people when they see that ad buy
like me
but there's some people that don't buy
because
they're not really sold by that emotion
so a b testing is hey I shall
50 of my audience the emotional ad on
why this is a cool soap you're going to
be buff and strong and you'll smell good
and I'm going to show the other 50
percent maybe a logical data driven
marketing approach
if you use this use this op our soap is
I'm making this up now 31 percent less
likely to dry your skin compared to Dove
our soap is uh
per usage it lasts 32 32 times longer
than lever 2000.
again I'm making up all these stats but
if you have tons of data and use a
logical approach that may be able to
convince people to buy more or less no
one really knows so you run tests on the
flip side some people just do simple
tests like let me change the color of a
button that doesn't impact conversions
too much but it's big things like what
is your messaging saying are you using
images versus videos so you would try
different variations out with people to
see what converts better and there's a
lot of tools that help you do this like
optimize the crazy egg uh vwo you can
try any of them to see which version
converts better